As robots become increasingly present in our daily lives, a future where these machines are ubiquitous appears gradually more plausible. Not only is effective and intuitive Human-Robot Communication (HRC)  imperative, but in the instance of social robots, establishing an emotional connection between humans and machines can be extremely beneficial to even the robot's raison d'être.

While the idea of a humanoid design has been pursued with great interest by researchers in the last decades, the complexities of interaction between humans poses a formidable obstacle in recreating the trademarks of interaction between people on robots. A less-then-perfect result could lead to the opposite of the desired effect, leading not to natural and intuitive interactions, but rather a feeling of unease in the presence of a humanoid robot. This phenomenon is explained by the "uncanny valley"-effect, suggested by Masahiro Mori in the 1970s . (Lakatos)

To overcome these challenges, an alternative source of inspiration could be considered: People tend to develop a deep and personal relationship with their pets. Compared to interpersonal communication, there are fewer and simpler variables to consider in interrelationship between humans and animals (Konok, Korondi). Due to their relatively advanced social and communicative capabilities, along with their scientifically well-understood behavior, especially the mimicry of Human-Dog Interaction in robots has been proposed before in multiple instances (Konok).

This motion has already been put to the test by researchers such as Brian L. Due, who explored the potential of robot dogs to assist visually impaired individuals in navigating complex environments. The study involved video ethnography and conversational analysis to observe an operator navigating an urban habitat with ether a guide dog and a robot dog, in this case Boston Dynamics' Spot. Due's research contrasts the effectiveness of robotic dogs to effectively replace guide dogs, as the current technological implementations do not allow for the nuanced and reciprocal interaction seen with guide dogs (Due). This underscores the importance for enhancing robotic communicative abilities to open the door for further use cases.

## Human-Centered Design for Robots in Public Places.

The integration of robots in public spaces however demands more than solely the technical ability to assist e.g. a visual impaired person in their daily life. Considering the comfort and perception of safety of our fellow human beings who may be incidentally confronted with a robot, be it in the halls of a university or a city's pedestrian precinct is equally important. Recent studies offer critical insight in these encounters, particularly with the nimble and versatile quadrupled robots. As the violent images of cinematographic tech-dystopias such as "Terminator" and "Black Mirror" are rather prevalent in the populace's minds, an autonomous robot on park patrol might be perceived as hostile and a potentially armed thread, instead of a security measure for the protection of the general public. (Jaung) The following section concerns with the examination of what may help levitating these concerns and the widespread feeling of uneasiness in the presence of autonomous robots. 

Gupta et. al. investigated stress responses in humans during encounters with robot-dogs, reporting higher levels of stress in participants if a robot was navigating a predetermined route, than when it was actively looking for something. These comparatively lower levels of anxiety during "search mode" were attributed to the prolonged interaction time between the human and the dog and the associated increased familiarity. To a statistically less significant extend, the researchers reported diminished  levels of comfort when multiple robots were navigating the room as opposed to just one. No significant changes in stress were identified when participants were seated in the testing area alone or together.
In a related study, Hauser et. al. however found that the presence of another human during the encounter elicited positive reactions from some subjects, a sentiment derived from interview data. Further, a visual indicator of control and perceived purpose such as a leash often positively influenced human perception, leading to them feeling more at-ease.

## Children and Robots

In a study examining the implementation of robot-dogs in preschool classes to enhance emotional literacy, Heljakka et al. found that these toy-like machines positively affected the participating children. It is widely agreed upon that a robot's appearance influences a user's expectations of its capabilities and behavior. The toy's close resemblance to real dogs helped the children develop a relationship with the robot dog, an effect strengthened by the appropriate natural user interface (NUI). Although the children preferred interaction with the living dog, they engaged with the robot at comparable rates. (Heljakka et. al.) Comparative studies (Barber et. al., Melson et. al.) concur with these findings. An examination of children's perceptions of AIBO, a robot dog manufactured by Sony, concluded that over 60% of children attributed mental states, sociality and morality to the toy, indicating significant anthromorphism. (Melson et. al.)

A related experiment by Voysey et. al. explored the impact of animal-like affective non-verbal behavior (AANB) on children's perception of zoomorphic robots. The research asserts that children ascribed a higher level of mental abilities, such as perception or emotion, if the robot displayed AANB. The presence of AANB significantly increased the perceived inanimacy and social attributes of the robot, which in turn might correlate with a higher rate of acceptance and a lower level of cruelty against them. (Voysey) 

These findings suggest a potential of robotic pets to elicit similar emotional and social responses in children as their living counterparts, suggesting that children may be developing a new ontological category that blurs the line between animate and inanimate objects. The literature reviewed allows for a clear recommendation towards the development of robotic pets for the youngsters and kids.

Other research not focused on children specifically, however, argues against a robot's resemblance to living beings, such as humans or animals, due to the same reason of perceived emotional intelligence and the consequently potentially inflated expectations towards a robot's abilities. Instead, robots should be clearly identifiable as such, though possibly drawing inspiration for communication from the realms of biology. This idea is prominent in the discipline of Etho-Robotics and might not contradict the findings of for instance Heljakka et. al., who specifically emphasised the differences in attitude towards robots in children compared to adults.

## The Elderly and Robots





[[3.2 Etho-Robotics]]



