The following section examines the status quo of etho-robotics, a field that leverages models of human-animal interaction to design social robots, with a particular focus on dog-like behaviour. One of the etho-robotics principles posits that a robot's appearance should neither mimic a human nor an animal, but rather reflect the machine's function within its environment (e.g., Korondi et al., Lakatos). From a communication perspective, however, it is possible and indeed advisable to draw inspiration from animal-human interaction. 

For example, Gabriella Lakatos found that implementing appropriately and contextually selected aspects of human-dog interaction can provide a believable and simple interface for humans. Furthermore, Lakatos examined the interactions between dogs and robots featuring dog-like behaviour, identifying a potential working relationship, such as the care of the elderly (Lakatos). The participants of the study attributed emotional states of some form to the machine, a phenomenon supported by studies such as those by Gáci et al., which demonstrated that the implemented aspects of human-dog interaction could elicit similar emotional responses in humans.

Extending this research, Niitsuma et al. focused especially on the aspect of "playing with the owner" in their proposed robot behaviour model inspired by human-dog relationships. The study aimed to improve mutual interaction and attachment behaviours between the robot and a person.
The findings indicated that such integrations not only facilitated improved understanding and reduced anxiety but also fostered a stronger and more meaningful interaction between robots and their owner.
Integrating these principles with previously discussed findings, it is evident that perceived control, familiarity and natural-like interactions are pivotal in creating a pleasant climate of low anxiety and high comfort during human-robot encounters. Etho-robotics employs these insights, while eliminating potential triggers such as the "uncanny valley" phenomenon, and avoids superelevated expectations of a robot's capability by providing a context-sensitive exterior.



