Due to the 2019 coronavirus pandemic and the need for social distancing measures, social robots have been deployed more frequently in health- and social care facilities, such as hospitals and nursing homes. This increased interest may be one of the reasons for the sudden spike and disproportionate wealth of existing literature on this specific use case for zoomorphic robots and etho-robotic robots displaying animal behaviour. Recent research has highlighted the impact of trait loneliness on the acceptance and anthropomorphism of social robots. It seems that the usefulness of social robots to alleviate chronic loneliness is currently limited, as less distinctively human qualities are attributed to robots. The individuals examined thus tended to perceive social robots as less capable of fulfilling social connection needs. (Li et al.)

Nevertheless, a variety of zoomorphic social robots have emerged in the social services. In a similar vein to other products on the market, such as the bear robot Huggable and the seal robot Paro, Therabot has been designed to resemble a dog. This particular paradigm was identified as being the most suited in a survey. The robot dog has been developed with the intention of providing support to patients struggling with mental health disorders. It is equipped with an adaptive tactile interaction system and a cute, softly padded exterior reminiscent of a stuffed animal (Bethel). It is thought that holding Therabot during a therapy session may help to significantly reduce the patient's heart rate, which could indicate potential to alleviate stress and anxiety (Henkel).

However, therapy is not the only potential use case for quadrupled robots in health care. As the training of assistance  dogs is expensive and not guaranteed to succeed even under ideal circumstances, the idea of transferring these tasks to robots in the future is interesting.
Researchers such as Brian L. Due explored the capabilities of robot dogs to assist visually impaired individuals in navigating complex environments. The study involved video ethnography and conversational analysis to observe an operator navigating an urban habitat with either a guide dog and a robot dog, which was based on Boston Dynamics' Spot.
Due's research contrasts the effectiveness of robotic dogs to effectively replace guide dogs, as the current technological implementations do not allow for the nuanced and reciprocal interaction seen with guide dogs (Due). Alternatively, as experiments in robot-dog interaction have shown to yield promising results, it may be worth considering whether robots could take over a part of an assistive dog's responsibilities, extending animal-assisted therapy (Lakatos).

A study conducted in a Finnish nursing home examined the use of the Spot robot as a walking guide to promote physical and social engagement among its inhabitants. The results indicated positive attitudes among older adults, as well as a natural social interaction comparable to that between humans and pets. The participants perceived Spot as particularly obedient and friendly, traits that have been identified by other researchers as desirable for functioning HRI (Hauser et. al.).