# Introduction
This chapter outlines the methodology employed in this bachelor thesis, which is bifurcated into two main components: a structured literature review and the development of a mobile application designed for Boston Dynamics' Spot robot. The literature review aims to synthesize existing research on human-robot interaction (HRI) with a specific focus on zoomorphic robots and dog-like behavior integration. The mobile application development component details the technical approach used to create an interface that enables users to command Spot to perform behaviors reminiscent of dogs. Notably, this thesis does not include empirical testing of the application with human participants, due to the constraints and scope of the project.

To provide a transparent and replicable framework for the research conducted, subsequent sections of this chapter will detail research design, literature search strategy, selection criteria, data management, analysis and synthesis methods, and ethical considerations of the literature review.  
Furthermore, the technologies applied in the development of SpotMe! are discussed, including front end development and back end development.


# Conclusion
Ultimately, this could lead to an increased user acceptance of Spot in various settings as a result of the improved comfort of interaction. Its applications may be expanded beyond the robots primary use in industrial settings and general user experience could be enhanced through a more intuitive interaction.