The 2019 coronavirus pandemic and the necessity for social distancing measures have led to an increased deployment of social robots in health- and social care facilities, such as hospitals and nursing homes. The sudden surge in literature on zoomorphic and etho-robotic robots displaying animal behaviour since the onset of the pandemic, in comparison to other potential use cases, may be attributed, at least in part, to the sudden interest in this specific use case. Neverth<eless, there is still a dearth of high quality scientific studies in this field, which often precludes the ability to draw definitive conclusions regarding the efficacy of specific use cases (Sommerlad).
During periods of lockdown, many people experienced difficulties due to a lack of social interaction. It appears that the current utility of social robots in alleviating chronic loneliness is constrained by the perception that robots lack distinctive human qualities. Consequently, individuals tend to perceive robots as less capable of fulfilling their social needs (Li et al.).

Despite these limitations, a small variety of zoomorphic social robots has emerged within the social service industry. Similarly to other products on the market, such as the bear robot Huggable and the seal robot Paro, Therabot has been designed to resemble a dog. This particular paradigm was identified as being the most suited in a survey. The robot dog has been developed with the intention of providing support to patients struggling with mental health disorders and is equipped with an adaptive tactile interaction system, as well as a cute, softly padded exterior reminiscent of a stuffed animal (Bethel). It is hypothesised that holding Therabot during a therapy session may help to significantly reduce the patient's heart rate, which could indicate potential to alleviate stress and anxiety (Henkel).
All studies examined highlighted the importance of Therabot's "life-like" appearance. Participants suggested that the robot's therapeutic effects could be further enhanced by implementing "barking" or even very specific details which are unique to dogs, such as a wet nose (Bethel?). 
 
However, therapy is not the only potential use case for quadrupled robots in health care. As the training of assistance  dogs is expensive and not guaranteed to succeed even under ideal circumstances, the idea of transferring these tasks to robots in the future is interesting.
Researchers such as Brian L. Due explored the capabilities of robot dogs to assist visually impaired individuals in navigating complex environments. The study involved video ethnography and conversational analysis to observe an operator navigating an urban habitat with either a guide dog and a robot dog, which was based on Boston Dynamics' Spot.
Due's research contrasts the effectiveness of robotic dogs to effectively replace guide dogs, as the current technological implementations do not allow for the nuanced and reciprocal interaction seen with guide dogs (Due). Alternatively, as experiments in robot-dog interaction have shown to yield promising results, it may be worth considering whether robots could take over a part of an assistive dog's responsibilities, extending animal-assisted therapy (Lakatos).

A study conducted in a Finnish nursing home examined the use of the Spot robot as a walking guide to promote physical and social engagement among its inhabitants. The results indicated positive attitudes among older adults, as well as a natural social interaction comparable to that between humans and pets. The participants perceived Spot as particularly obedient and friendly, traits that have been identified by other researchers as desirable for functioning HRI (Hauser et. al.).

