
# Pioneers and Early Development

Humans have long been fascinated with creating a machine that appears to be alive. One of the earliest recordet attempts dates back to around 400 BCE, when the Greek philosopher and mathematician Archytas of Tarentum was said to have created an automaton sometimes known as "The Pidgeon".  According to the roman author Aulus Gellius,  the mechanic bird was made from wood and  powered by a steam engine, enabling it to fly (Olshin).  Tarentums' dove exemplifies the  ancient roots of a relatively new field of science, dating back significantly over two millennia before our modern concept of robots would become technologically feasible.

In the middle of the 20th century, when the available computing power increased rapidly, visionary thinkers such as Alan Turing and Isaac Asimov began to think about the technological possibilities of the future. Although their work did not directly lay the foundation for the formal field of Human-Robot Interaction (HRI), their ideas helped lay the conceptional foundation and impacted the broader context in which HRI would later develop.
For example, in his seminal paper “Computing Machinery and Intelligence”, Turing described the so-called “Turing Test”, a procedure for determining whether a machine has an intelligence that cannot be distinguished from that of a human being. Although the British mathematician is primarily known for laying the foundations in the field of artificial intelligence, his vision of a truly intelligent machine, that can comprehend and respond to human input, constitutes an early concept of what communication between humans and machines might look like at some stage in the future.

Through his work, Asimov, the Russian-American scientist and science fiction author, not only significantly influenced the further development of robotics, but also shaped the public perception of robots. Of his hundreds of published books, the short stories summarised in the collection ‘I, Robot’ are particularly noteworthy: In "Liar!", Asimov defines and coins the term ‘robotics’, while in "Runaround" he formulates his famous "Three Laws of Robotics".

- A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm.
- A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings, except where such orders would conflict with the First Law.
- A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law.

With his Three Laws of Robotics, the author has created a framework to ensure that robots act safely and for the benefit of humans.This concept of ethical considerations in the design of robots has become a critical component of modern Human-Robot Interaction.

# First Steps

When Unimate, the first ever industrial robot, was deployed in 1961,  employees of the Ford Motor Company were asked to interact with the novel machine as little as possible, to avoid work injuries. Though since then robots were adapted rapidly by different industries (Terris), they usually were thought of as heavy, stationary devices. Though Unimate did thus not interact with humans in a meaningful way, the state was set for more sophisticated interaction.

Driven by the increased sophistication of robotics and the necessity for systems that could safely operate in close proximity to humans, HRI emerged as a formal field in the late 20th and early 21st centuries. As robots were no longer confined to industrial halls but moved  to more interactive environments, including homes, hospitals, schools and public spaces, the dynamics of human and robot interaction required a more structural approach.

## Recent History

Cynthia Breazeal's research results from her doctoral thesis at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) significantly demonstrate how robots can communicate with humans in a meaningful way. Breazeal developed the first social robot, Kismet, which was specifically designed for natural interaction between humans and robots. Kismet has the ability to interact with humans through facial expressions, eye movements and verbal communication. Particular attention was paid to the intuitiveness of these interactions in order to create the most natural communication environment possible.


Taking R2-D2 and C-3P0 as representative instances,
a sociable robot is able to communicate and interact with us, understand and even relate
to us, in a personal way. It is a robot that is socially intelligent in a human-like way. We
interact with it as if it were a person, and ultimately as a friend. This is the dream of a
sociable robot. The field is in its infancy, and so is Kismet.

